Welcome back in this lesson we're going to look at what else if and if statements using ELSE IF.
So first of all let's set a variable and we'll just call it my time.
Let's say this is working off of a 24 hour clock.
It was started at 11 a.m..
So what I want to do now is I want to check this value and return back depending on what time it is.
I want to return back a different message to the user.
So again we're going to grow up in that content element there.
So using documents get element by ID and that one is put so that we can put the content into the interface
Jamelle and we can get rid of this console part here.
So I can refresh that and we see we just got that statement there.
So now we're going to actually do or if statements and let's check to see if the value of my time and
we know that if it's before noon then we're going to say morning.
And then if it's in the afternoon or evening say welcome to the afternoon.
So now let's update output.
And this is the H2 mail and we're going to equal that to
wake wake up this morning
so let's first try to make sure that it's working.
So what happens if we come back at fifteen hundred hours and we don't get any type of response.
So this is where we could use.
Else.
And we can say that house
we can say now
it's evening
go to sleep so we can set some instructions for the user refresh.
It's evening go to sleep.
So we know that depending on what the value of my time is.
So if it's really early in the morning 4:00 a.m. wake up its morning.
So hopefully you don't have to get up at 4:00 a.m. But this is our basic evaluation here of the time.
So let's take this one step further.
So what if we want to add in some additional check to see if maybe we had lunchtime or something like
that.
So we want to add in some additional checks here.
So let's let's end with javascript.
The way that we can do that is we can use the else if statement and that gives us another option to
apply another condition and check to see if this condition is true.
Before we just simply evaluate to the default here the else.
So basically we're checking to see if this is true and if it is then we run the code that's between
the curly brackets.
Next we're going to check to see if my time is greater than 12 and my time is less than 1.
Then we're going to say would put and in our HMO and we are on a 24 hour clock.
So we need to make sure that it's 13
and we'll say go to lunch
so let's refresh this and we'll update our time so update our time to be twelve point five so now it's
telling us to go to lunch and we can apply as many outs ifs as we want and make sure that you leave
the space in there because Javascript the way that the LCF works is that there's no key word for that
that you do need to make sure that you are providing the spacing in there in order to allow it to accommodate
the else.
So you could also add a bunch of other ones if you want to as well.
So let's let's do one more here.
So else if and this time let's check to see if the time is greater than four and maybe less than 8 say
dinnertime
and let's save that refresh.
And of course we need to set and keep working off of so 4 o'clock would be sixteen hundred hours and
eight o'clock would be 20 hours.
So let's let's pick a time in between there.
Let's do 17:00 hours which should be 5 o'clock.
So it's dinnertime and everything else.
It's evening.
Go to sleep.
So let's let's do even more here.
So we don't want to wake up really early.
So now let's update this to accommodate a time of more reasonable time for getting up.
So what I want you to do now is to pause the video
and update the code.
Checking to see if the person if the time is between 8:00 a.m. and 12 so eight hundred hours or twelve
hundred hours and if it is that we know it's time to wake up and if it's between thirteen hundred and
sixteen hundred hours then we know that it's time to go to work.
So just check to see if it's equal to 13:00.
So you've got to be right on time to work.
So 13:00 hours 1:00 p.m. and you know that it can be up to 16 hundred and then set the time to 13:00
hours and also update that last statement.
So another else if to see if it's past your bedtime so check checking to see if it's over 22:00 hours
and then basically that means that it's time to go to sleep.
So make those updates and I'm going to work through them as well.
Coming up plus a video give it a go and I'm going to show you how to do that coming up.
So he did say that one of the first things that we want to do is add another statement in here.
So we're going to check to see if my time is greater than or equal to eight.
So he didn't need to add in those equal signs.
And the reason that we're using and is that we want to land it between these is different times.
So we want to check to see if it's less than or equal that equal to 12 then we know that this is our
morning.
We've got to get up we've got to get going get to work.
So next we know that we've got a lunchtime here so we're going to check to see if it's greater than
or equal to and less than or equal to 13
and actually I should get rid of this one here.
So we know that we're going right away to lunch and if we're falling between those times then we know
that it's lunchtime.
And also did say that we need to make sure that the user gets to work at 1:00 p.m. So it's not a condition
for her.
So we're going to check to see if the time is above 1300 or if it's less than equal to 16:00.
So that's where we can add an equal sign.
And over here we need an equal sign because if it's one then they need to be at work.
So this one will tell the user to go to go to work.
And then we've got our dinner time and we need to add in one more.
And I know there's quite a lot of them going on here and I'm going to show you a better way to do this.
Coming up as well using the switch statement.
But for now let's stick with our statement and we can see that we can add as many as we like and always
checking to see if this condition is evaluated true.
And if it is then we run the code between the curly brackets and if it's not that we just move on to
the next statement.
So we want to check to see if the time is greater than or equal to twenty two hundred then we know that
time to go to sleep.
And everything else is if you should be sleeping.
And now let's do this so there is more of a variable within my tought time and all of this to a prompt
and we'll see what our is.
So now let's refresh this.
So it's asking us what our IT IS.
So let's say it's 8 a.m. in the morning wake up it's morning next let's see that right now it's noon.
So time to go to lunch after that.
It's 1 p.
1 p.m. So 13:00 hours and we always have to be right on time for work.
So time to go to work.
Next we know that we've got home from work and roughly around 6:00 p.m. So 18:00 hours we're going to
be eating dinner next.
Let's refresh it ands let's say it's twenty three hundred hours and it's time to go to sleep.
And then another one.
So let's say it's 3:00 in the morning you should be sleeping.
So everything looks like it's working great.
And in the next lesson I'm going to show you a better way to create this using the switch statement.
So that's coming up.